I'm Chris Cannella from Jackson guitars
and autumns and I'm down here at EMG TV
today I'm going to be going through a
few riffs a few things to show you and a
lot of talk about the new EMG X's which
I swear by and use with my band autumns
end as well as what I'm doing clinics
one of the first things that I wanted to
talk about here is with the balloon of
these riffs that I'm going to be doing
from the last album act of attrition
it's the show with the EMG X's they
really are in 81 and and 85 just a lot
of velocity sensitive attributes as well
as a little bit of an open spectrum that
you can really play with so with this
I'm going to show you that really are an
81 85 when you're playing chunk it's
still there everything you love about
the consistency and the clarity of EMG
it's still there
and that was a riff from our second
video the eyes of ignorance one of the
things that I like to show is with the
different notes you can still have the
pinched harmonics the rolling and with
the articulate picking you can still
hear everything just as you normally
would but one of the things that as you
you know people that are familiar with
autumns and are people that are really
into a lot of different diverse metal
there's a lot of pickup changes and when
it comes down to lead playing one of the
things that I fell in love with right
off the bat was that you can really
utilize your pickup switching just as
you would before with the 81 or 85 but
you can become a little bit more I guess
you would say velocity-sensitive with
this with this as light as you want to
pick and as hard as you want to pick
now as you saw was a lot of heavy
picking as well as a bit of legato and
softening up a little bit for the sake
of dynamic without even touching my
volume knob it was all right there just
because it is very natural and it reacts
in many of the same ways that a
traditional passive may work but having
the power the articulation and the
clarity of that only EMG can offer an
active and great probably my favorite
thing about the X's from EMG is when
with a band like autumn's em where we
utilize a lot of heavy to clean changes
live you can't always bring an acoustic
guitar out on tour with you or to even a
lot of the regional gigs so this is a
great pickup because of its sensitivity
and its wide range of frequencies it's a
great pickup to compensate for that what
I'm gonna do is play a little bit from
song off of the act of attrition album
our last album and it's from to carry
the burden and you'll be seeing a lot of
pickup changes between the middle and
the neck and just showing one of the
ways that this just rings out so
beautiful for clean tones
you
I've been swearing by the 81 and 85 for
you know just about 20 years now and now
I've actually moved on to the EMG X's
and I have to be proud to say I'm one of
the first people out there that got to
utilize these things and live test them
and they've been great slaughter less
connections when you're out on the road
and you need to switch some things out
it's right there you don't have to worry
about getting in the way and having to
do it in the dark and soldering and
burning your hands it's all there and of
course it's got the quality sound tone
and then some that you would only expect
from EMG so if you want to know more
about it go to EMG pickups calm